This Trial License Agreement (this “Agreement”) is made and entered into
as of the date you click “I ACCEPT” (the “Effective Date”), between MapD
Technologies, Inc., a Delaware corporation (“MapD”) with an address at
180 Sansome St. 4th floor, San Francisco, CA 94104, and the individual
clicking “I ACCEPT,” on his or her own behalf, or, if this Agreement is
entered into for business purposes, for the business entity on whose
behalf the individual clicks “I ACCEPT” (in either case, “Licensee”).
MapD, on the one hand, and Licensee, on the other hand, may be referred
to herein as a “Party,” and together as the “Parties.”

SOFTWARE LICENSED
=================

The software (the “Software”) licensed pursuant to this Agreement is:
___________________________. There is no fee for the license.

TRIAL SERVICES FEE
==================

Licensee agrees to pay a fee (the “Trial Services Fee”) in exchange for
services that may be provided in connection with the Trial License. The
Parties will set out any applicable services and the Trial Services Fee
in a separate document (email exchange sufficient).

LIMITED LICENSE
===============

Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, MapD hereby
grants Licensee a non-exclusive, non-transferable, non-assignable,
non-sublicenseable, limited license and right to install, use, and copy
the Software for Licensee’s internal evaluation purposes only (the
“License”). The License is valid for 30 days from the Effective Date
only (the “Term”). MapD reserves all rights not expressly granted
herein.

Licensee will not translate, adapt, reverse-engineer, decompile, create
derivative works, disassemble or modify the Software and related
documentation from MapD (together, the “Licensed Products”) in whole or
in part for any purpose. Licensee will not publish, rent, lease,
license, sell, sub-license, assign, transmit, or use the Licensed
Products to provide services to third parties whether as a service
bureau, an application service provider, or otherwise, nor will Licensee
process or store the data of third parties or otherwise transfer the
Licensed Products to any third party. Licensee will comply with all
applicable laws and regulations relating to the use of the Licensed
Products. Except as specifically permitted in this Agreement:
(i) Licensee shall make no use of the Licensed Products, or use them for
the benefit of any other person or entity, or permit any third party to
make such use, and (ii) Licensee will not obtain or claim any ownership
interest in the Licensed Products, or any portion thereof, or any
intellectual property therein.

Licensee shall take all reasonable steps to ensure that only its
representatives with a business need have access to the Licensed
Products, and to ensure that no persons authorized to have such access
shall take any action which would be in violation of this Agreement.

LIMITATIONS
===========

MapD may terminate Licensee’s License, and this Agreement, at any time,
upon notice to Licensee upon Licensee’s breach of this Agreement. The
License and this Agreement terminate automatically after the expiration
of the Term. MapD may use license keys, lockouts, or remote control
features to disable the Software after the end of the Term.

Upon any termination or expiration of this Agreement, Licensee must
immediately stop all use of the Licensed Products and delete all copies
of the Licensed Products held or controlled by Licensee. Upon request
from MapD, Licensee must certify in writing to MapD that it has complied
fully with the provisions of this paragraph.

Licensee agrees to comply fully with all relevant export laws and
regulations of the United States and all other jurisdictions (“Export
Laws”) to assure that neither the Software, nor any direct product of
the foregoing is exported, directly or indirectly, in violation of
Export Laws or is intended to be used for any purposes prohibited by the
Export Laws.

If Licensee provides MapD with any suggestions, comments or feedback
about the Licensed Products, including any results of benchmark tests or
comparisons (“Feedback”), Licensee agrees that such Feedback shall be
the sole and exclusive property and Confidential Information of MapD,
and Licensee hereby assigns, for no additional consideration, all of its
rights, title and interest in and to such Feedback to MapD. MapD will be
free to use, disclose, reproduce, license and otherwise distribute the
Feedback without any obligations or restrictions of any kind.

Except as specifically provided in this Agreement, MapD has no
responsibility to provide services or assistance to Licensee in
connection with its use of the Licensed Products.

TRIAL SERVICES
==============

If agreed, and for the applicable Trial Services Fee, MapD will provide
assistance with the installation, configuration, and support services
for the Licensed Products during the Term (“Trial Services”). The Trial
Services may include onsite professional services from a MapD
consultant; (b) technical support via email (as available); and
(c) online access to MapD’s Technical Support Knowledge Base.

As applicable, Licensee shall use reasonable efforts to: (i) provide
MapD’s employees, agents and contractors with such information,
co-operation and support as may reasonably be required for MapD to
provide the Trial Services; (ii) permit MapD’s employees, agents and
contractors to access such of the Licensee’s systems, networks, premises
and property as is necessary to perform the Trial Services and ensure
that MapD is granted sufficient authorization to use any third party
systems, programs, or networks necessary to provide the Trial Services;
(iii) ensure that all necessary consents, authorizations and licenses
have been obtained so that MapD’s provision of the Trial Services does
not breach any statutory or regulatory provisions (of whatever
jurisdiction) relating to the use of and access to personal data; and
(iv) ensure the health and safety of MapD’s employees, agents and
contractors engaged in providing the Trial Services at the Licensee’s
premises.

Licensee is responsible for all travel and living expenses
(“Expenses”) incurred by: (i) MapD personnel while traveling to and from
Licensee’s facilities to perform services, and (ii) Licensee personnel
traveling to and from MapD’s facilities for training programs. MapD’s
reasonable Expenses will be billed to Licensee by MapD periodically when
such Expenses have been incurred.

CONFIDENTIALITY
===============

Licensee agrees that, at all times and notwithstanding any termination
or expiration of this Agreement, it will hold in strict confidence and
not disclose to any third party any Confidential Information of MapD.
Licensee further agrees that it will use the Confidential Information
for no purpose other than for its evaluation the Software as set forth
in this Agreement. For purposes hereof, “Confidential Information” means
any and all technical and non-technical information, whether in oral,
written, graphic or electronic form, MapD provides to Licensee under
this Agreement, including, but not limited to, the Software, as well as
any ideas, samples, media, techniques, sketches, drawings, works of
authorship, firmware, layouts, designs, models, inventions, know-how,
processes, algorithms, software source documents, and formulae related
to the current, future, and proposed products and services of MapD, and
any information concerning research, design details and specifications,
financial information, employees, business and contractual
relationships, business forecasts, sales and marketing plans,
information MapD provides regarding third parties, and any third party
proprietary information disclosed by MapD. Without limiting any of the
foregoing, all results of the evaluation of the Software (including
without limitation any benchmark tests or comparisons), all Feedback,
and anything discussed at the evaluation meetings between the parties,
will be deemed Confidential Information of MapD and Licensee agrees and
shall cause Customer to agree that it will not publish or disclose the
results of the evaluation of the Software. Licensee hereby acknowledges
and agrees that in the event of any breach of this Agreement by
Licensee, including, without limitation, the actual or threatened
disclosure or unauthorized use of MapD’s Confidential Information
without MapD’s prior express written consent, MapD will suffer an
irreparable injury, such that no remedy at law will afford it adequate
protection against, or appropriate compensation for, such injury.
Accordingly, Licensee hereby agrees that MapD shall be entitled to
injunctive relief, specific performance of Licensee’s obligations under
this Agreement, and such further relief as may be granted by a court of
competent jurisdiction.

DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTIES; LIMITATIONS OF LIABILITY; INDEMNITY
=============================================================

THE LICENSED PRODUCTS AND ANY RELATED SERVICES ARE PROVIDED “AS IS” AND
TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, MAPD DOES NOT MAKE ANY WARRANTY
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, ORAL OR WRITTEN, WITH RESPECT TO THE LICENSED
PRODUCTS, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE OR
NON-INFRINGEMENT. MAPD DOES NOT WARRANT THAT THE OPERATION OF THE
LICENSED PRODUCTS WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED, FREE FROM DEFECTS OR ERROR-FREE
OR THAT THE LICENSED PRODUCTS WILL MEET THE LICENSEE’S REQUIREMENTS. THE
WARRANTY DISCLAIMER IN THIS PARAGRAPH CONSTITUTES AN ESSENTIAL PART OF
THIS AGREEMENT AND NO USE OF THE LICENSED PRODUCTS IS AUTHORIZED
HEREUNDER EXCEPT UNDER THIS DISCLAIMER.

To the maximum extent permitted by law, in no event will MapD be liable
to Licensee under or in connection with this Agreement for any: (a) loss
of actual or anticipated profit or savings, (b) losses caused by
business interruption, (c) loss of or damage to goodwill or reputation,
(d) loss or corruption of data, or (e) any indirect, punitive,
exemplary, multiple, special or consequential cost, expense, loss or
damage, even if such cost, expense, loss or damage was reasonably
foreseeable or might reasonably have been contemplated by the Parties or
where MapD has been advised of the possibility of such loss and whether
arising from breach of contract, tort, negligence, breach of statutory
duty or otherwise. The maximum liability of MapD to Licensee under or in
connection with this agreement whether arising from breach of contract,
tort, negligence, breach of statutory duty or otherwise shall not exceed
the sum of US \$2,000. This paragraph sets forth the entire maximum
liability of MapD to Licensee. The provisions of this paragraph allocate
the risk between MapD and Licensee and the License and these terms
reflect the allocation of risk and limitation of liability specified
herein.

Licensee will be solely responsible for the maintenance and security of
its own software, data and equipment. MapD shall have no liability for
any loss or corruption of any such software, data and/or equipment,
however caused.

Each Party (the “Indemnifying Party”) shall defend and indemnify the
other party, and it agents, employees, officers, and representatives
(each, an “Indemnified Party”) against, and hold such persons harmless
from, any liability or damages (including, without limitation,
reasonable legal fees and costs) assessed against or incurred by an
Indemnified Party arising out of damage to personal or real property
caused by the Indemnifying Party’s gross negligence or intentional
misconduct, except to the extent resulting from the Indemnified Party’s
negligence or intentional misconduct.

COMMERCIAL SOFTWARE 
====================

If any Licensed Products are acquired by or on behalf of a unit or
agency of the United States government, the government agrees that such
Licensed Products are “commercial computer software” or “commercial
computer software documentation” and that, absent a written agreement to
the contrary, the government’s rights with respect to such Licensed
Products are limited by the terms of this Agreement, pursuant to FAR §
12.212(a) and/or DFARS § 227.7202-1(a), as applicable.

MISCELLANEOUS
=============

This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the
laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. Any dispute arising hereunder
or concerning any transaction contemplated hereby shall be resolved by a
court of competent jurisdiction located in Middlesex or Suffolk County,
Massachusetts, and Licensee hereby consents to personal jurisdiction in
such venues for purposes of this Agreement. This Agreement sets forth
the entire agreement between the Parties relating to the subject matter
hereof and supersedes any prior oral or written agreements and
understandings relating thereto. No modification, amendment or waiver of
any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be binding on a Party
unless it is in writing and signed by the Party against whom such
amendment, waiver or discharge is sought to be enforced. No delay or
omission by either Party in exercising any rights under this Agreement
will impair any such right or power or be construed to be a waiver
thereof. No purchase order, invoice or other similar form may vary the
terms hereof, and any term thereof that is inconsistent with or
additional to the terms of this Agreement shall not be binding, unless
otherwise expressly agreed by the Parties in writing. Licensee expressly
agrees that in the event of the breach or threatened breach of the
License, in addition to any other rights or remedies which MapD may
have, MapD shall be entitled to injunctive relief compelling specific
performance of, and compliance with, the terms of the License. The terms
and conditions of this Agreement are personal to Licensee and Licensee
may not assign its rights or delegate its obligations hereunder without
the prior written consent of MapD. Subject to the foregoing sentence,
this Agreement will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the
successors and assigns of the Parties.

Whenever possible, each provision of this Agreement will be interpreted
in such manner as to be effective and valid under applicable law. The
Parties agree that (i) the provisions of this Agreement shall be
severable in the event that any of the provisions hereof are for any
reason whatsoever invalid, void or otherwise unenforceable, (ii) such
invalid, void or otherwise unenforceable provisions shall be
automatically replaced by other provisions which are as similar as
possible in terms to such invalid, void or otherwise unenforceable
provisions but are valid and enforceable, (iii) the remaining provisions
shall remain enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.

I ACCEPT
